---
layout: post
title: "Two Sum II sorted"
author: William Wong
categories: leetcode
tags: [Medium]
published: true
---
Given a 1-indexed array of integers numbers that is already sorted in non-decreasing order, 
find two numbers such that they add up to a specific target number `t`. Let 
these two numbers be `numbers[index1]` and `numbers[index2]` where `1 <= index1 < index2 <= numbers.length`.

Return the indices of the two numbers, `index1` and `index2`, added by one as an integer array `[index1, index2]` of length 2.

The tests are generated such that there is exactly one solution. You may not use the same element twice.

Your solution must use only constant extra space.


### Example
- Input: `numbers = [2,7,11,15]`, target = 9
- Output: [1,2]
- Explanation: The sum of 2 and 7 is 9. Therefore, index1 = 1, index2 = 2. We return [1, 2].

### Solution (Java)
So Two Sum problem is a very famous problem. Genereally, you encounter the unsorted version, where the Hashmap solves it in `O(n)`.
This problem is a bit different because it says you're not allowed to use extra space, i.e., only use `O(1)` memory. This means
the hashmap is out of the question.

This gives also the hint to use pointers. Moreover, in order to solve it in `O(n)` and reduce the search space, we can start with
setting one pointer to `i=0` and one to `j=n-1` (the end of array) and narrow it down to the center.
Since the array is sorted,  if we move `i` to the right, we know that the two-sum gets larger. If we move `j` to the left, we know that the sum gets smaller.
Using these two properties, we can compare the current sum to target `t` and move the pointers until it equals `t`.

```java
class Solution {
    public int[] twoSum(int[] numbers, int target) {
        // note that we are not allowed to use additional space!
        int ptrL = 0;
        int ptrR = numbers.length - 1;
        int[] arr = new int[2];
        while(ptrL != ptrR){
            if(numbers[ptrL] + numbers[ptrR] == target){
                arr[0] = ptrL+1; arr[1] = ptrR+1;
                return arr;
            }
            else if(numbers[ptrL] + numbers[ptrR] > target){
                ptrR--;
            }
            else{
                ptrL++;
            }
        }

        return arr;
    }
}
```
